NOVELIST: PRIVATE PHONE ACCESS ON FREE HOSTING

Status
Supabase CLI is signed in and linked. All 56 migrations through 202609110044
are deployed to the hosted project in us-east-1. The real owner is email-verified
and the private owner restriction is active. Migration completed: 3 books,
165 current chapter translations, one metadata preview, 876 original chapters
and 876 private files. All 30 owner-table fingerprints and file SHA-256 hashes
matched. The local library was not removed or reset.

Hosted-connected Mac app: http://127.0.0.1:5174 (AI currently disabled).
Port 5173 still uses the separate local database; it is NOT a live cloud sync.
GitHub authorization/push and the Render frontend deployment remain pending.

PASSWORD SETUP
The email link verifies/signs in; it does not generate a password or email code.
The VS Code browser and Chrome/Safari have separate PKCE request state. Use the
same browser for requesting and opening a link, or set a password directly:
   npm run account:password -- --project-ref klkjphqfzzbcecksdwtw --owner 28fd9dab-36c4-46b4-a96a-53583f44ff50
Enter and confirm it only in the hidden terminal prompts. Minimum length is 8
as explicitly requested. No password is embedded in code or these notes. Until
those prompts complete, the helper has not assigned a password. Then use
Email + Use password in the app, including after frontend deployment.

Verified transfer backup:
.novelist/backups/hosted-transfer-2026-09-12T23-46-11.300Z/
It contains the exact source rows, 876 file copies and the target manifest.
A separate pre-consolidation PostgreSQL archive preserves older translations.
These private backups are ignored by Git and are not blind cloud-restore dumps.

Rotate the Supabase secret key that was pasted in chat. Enter replacement secrets
only in your terminal or hosting dashboards, never in this file or in Git.
The application server needs only the Supabase publishable key, not a secret key.

1. AUTHORIZE THE CLIS
   Supabase login is complete. GitHub still needs authorization in your terminal:
     gh auth login
   A project publishable/secret API key is not a Supabase CLI access token and is
   not the database password. This CLI supports Management API SQL with
   --linked --project-ref, so schema deployment did not require sharing a database
   password. A direct restore connection, if needed, must be configured privately.
   The intended GitHub repository is a new PRIVATE repository named novelist.

2. MIGRATION COMPLETE; PRESERVE THE BACKUPS
   Target project: klkjphqfzzbcecksdwtw
   Supabase URL: https://klkjphqfzzbcecksdwtw.supabase.co
   Existing library owner UUID: 28fd9dab-36c4-46b4-a96a-53583f44ff50
   Preserve that UUID, book/source IDs, originals, translations, guides, glossary,
   folders and reading positions. The shared VS Code browser has a different test
   account; do not migrate that account instead.

   The verified hosted owner has the exact source UUID; local anonymous Auth is
   unchanged. The owner-only restore was rehearsed with rollback, then copied
   and verified. Do not rerun migration:copy on the populated hosted library.
   Use a private backup, preserve migration history and copy Storage bytes
   separately. SQL backups alone do not contain the chapter file bytes.
   Do not reset Supabase, delete local volumes or blindly replay data migrations.
   Do not copy development/test accounts to the private hosted library.
   The source and hosted Auth identity metadata will differ intentionally because
   an anonymous local identity is becoming a permanent hosted email identity.
   Verify the preserved UUID and confirmed email separately; do not ignore any
   unexpected application-row, migration-history or Storage-file differences.

   Read-only verification commands:
     npm run migration:manifest -- --help
     npm run migration:manifest -- --output .novelist/source-manifest.json
     npm run migration:manifest -- --output .novelist/target-manifest.json
     npm run migration:manifest -- --compare .novelist/source-manifest.json .novelist/target-manifest.json
   Use the respective source/target environments for the two captures. See
   docs/deployment.md for the manifest credentials and migration checklist.
   Pause writes only during the agreed final snapshot/copy window.

3. LOCK DOWN THE HOSTED PROJECT
   The permanent account is email-verified and owner restriction is active.
   Public sign-ups and anonymous sign-ins are disabled on the HOSTED project.
   Keep the library bucket PRIVATE. Retain all owner RLS policies.
   In the hosted SQL editor, after restoring and verifying the account:
     select public.configure_private_library('28fd9dab-36c4-46b4-a96a-53583f44ff50'::uuid);
     select public.library_access_status();
   restricted must be true. allowed can be false for an administrator without a
   user JWT. Do not activate this restriction on the local development database.
   Test a second authenticated account, anonymous access, direct RPCs and Storage.

   Auth currently permits http://127.0.0.1:5174 for enrollment. Change Site URL to
   the final Render HTTPS URL and retain the exact Mac ingestion URL as an allowed
   redirect before cutover. The app uses built-in email sign-in links by default.
   Supabase rejected custom email-template changes on this Free project with the
   default provider; custom code-only templates need custom SMTP or a paid plan.
   Do not add either merely for login. The app now uses links without a code
   prompt, and shows actionable errors for missing or expired PKCE requests.
   Keep global auth.enable_signup=false but auth.email.enable_signup=true;
   the latter is required even for existing-account email login.

   Hosted-only Auth changes were applied from the ignored minimal configuration
   at .novelist/hosted-auth/supabase/config.toml. Do not push the local development
   supabase/config.toml to production. Always review config diff before pushing.

4. CREATE A FREE RENDER WEB SERVICE
   Connect the private novelist GitHub repository. Choose Web Service, Node,
   Free instance, one instance, and a region near the Supabase project.
   Build command: npm ci --include=dev && npm run build
   Start command: npm start
   Health check: /health
   Auto-deploy: off until migration and checks are complete.
   render.yaml contains the equivalent Blueprint. No paid resources are required
   by that template. Review Render's current quotas before creating the service.

   Environment variables (these are names/settings, not secret values):
     NODE_VERSION=24.13.0
     NODE_ENV=production
     VITE_AUTH_MODE=private
     VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://klkjphqfzzbcecksdwtw.supabase.co
     VITE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=<project publishable key from Supabase>
     NOVELIST_ALLOWED_USER_ID=28fd9dab-36c4-46b4-a96a-53583f44ff50
     NOVELIST_PUBLIC_ORIGIN=https://<your-service>.onrender.com
     NOVELIST_ENABLE_LIVE_AI=false
     NOVELIST_AI_CONCURRENCY=2
     NOVELIST_AI_REQUESTS_PER_HOUR=0
     OPENAI_TRANSLATION_MODEL=gpt-5.6-luna
     OPENAI_CHAT_MODEL=gpt-4.1-mini
     OPENAI_API_KEY=<enter directly in Render only when enabling translations>

   Render supplies PORT. Rebuild after changing VITE_ variables. Never set a
   Supabase secret/service-role key as VITE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY. The server
   refuses startup until the hosted database owner restriction is activated.
   Turn live AI on only after access and data checks pass; OpenAI usage is paid
   separately even when Render and Supabase are free.

5. CONNECT PHONE AND MAC TO THE SAME LIBRARY
   Sign in at the Render URL from your phone. Test original and translated
   reading, exact chapter/version/scroll resume and account recovery.
   After verified cutover, use the hosted Supabase URL/publishable key, private
   Auth mode and the same owner UUID in the Mac app. Keep its extension bridge
   on localhost. The extension still downloads through the Mac into the same
   hosted library. Scraping does not run on Render. Keep local backups intact.

FREE-TIER LIMITS (CHECKED 2026-09-12)
Supabase Free: 500 MB database, 1 GB files, 5 GB egress plus 5 GB cached egress;
projects can pause after one week of inactivity. Automatic backups are not
included. Render Free sleeps after 15 idle minutes and can take about a minute
to wake. It can restart at any time and has a shared 750 instance-hour monthly
allowance. Excess outbound/API traffic can suspend a free instance.

Free Render is suitable for this personal reader but does not guarantee long
unattended translation queues will finish while every browser is closed. Saved
results persist in Supabase; interrupted jobs recover on authenticated reconnect
within their attempt limit, while manually paused jobs stay paused. There is
no artificial keep-alive. GitHub Pages can host static UI, not this Node API.
Vercel would require adapting the worker to serverless/background infrastructure;
Render is the compatible free option for the existing server.

LIBRARY SIZE AND COMPRESSION
Migrated snapshot: 3 books, 876 downloaded chapters and 165 current chapter
translations. Counts grow as you read/download/translate. Database indexes and
saved context add to capacity; the 1 GB file allowance is not the only limit.

PostgreSQL already compresses large text/JSON with TOAST/pglz. On local copies
of 61 translation rows, pglz used 2.61 MB versus LZ4's 2.83 MB, so pglz was kept.
No extra database compression extension was needed. New downloaded chapters
use gzip only when it saves at least 10%; a 30-chapter real-data sample saved
57%. Existing files are not rewritten. Readers support both forms, bound
decompression, and verify the same original-text SHA-256 hash after decoding.

TRANSLATION BEHAVIOR
The book's Translated tab lists saved chapter titles and opens the current text.
There is one current translation per chapter and language. A successful new
translation or term edit replaces it atomically; failed results leave it intact.
Originals and reading positions are retained. Chat is hidden/disabled in the reader.

Regular Translate/Retranslate submits a durable one-chapter job and returns
quickly. It can finish while you read elsewhere. Completion never redirects
another book; return to the requested chapter to load it. Transient failures retry
automatically, with three total attempts per unfinished chapter and backoff.
Quota/access/source errors or exhausted attempts stop; remaining reader recovery
controls affect only that reader job, not a bulk queue. Manual Pause/Cancel wins.

Bulk Translate supports adaptive groups of up to 10, or 1 for per-chapter
continuity. Translate untranslated selects the originals already downloaded
across the book (up to 20,000 indexed positions), skips matching saved translations,
and excludes undownloaded chapters instead of blocking the job. Manual ranges
remain limited to 1,000 and require all originals in that range. The selection
keeps the original positions and is checked again against the reviewed count.
Regular and grouped jobs may run on different chapters together.
Overlapping running chapters share work; completed matching versions are skipped.
Each result has a source ID/hash and ordered paragraph coverage. Fully closed,
validated chapters can be saved from token-truncated group output. Incomplete
chapters are not published. Only unfinished chapters retry, in smaller groups
after truncated output. Starting the job authorizes these bounded paid retries.
This uses the regular Responses API, NOT the discounted OpenAI Batch API.

DIRECT DOWNLOADS
The app and extension support 1-3 concurrent direct downloads (default 3).
The extension's direct delay can be 0 seconds; older site pacing is preserved,
so explicitly set 0 for a site that previously had a delay. Rendered browser
downloads still use a single tab with 1-60 second pacing. The server queues
up to 3 chapter operations and 2 sandbox extractions, with no forced per-fetch
second. Challenges stop new requests; pending successes are retained.

In the app, Retry direct download makes a fresh explicit attempt; Skip chapter
& continue leaves the blocked chapter unsaved and proceeds. In the extension,
out-of-order completions and pending job IDs survive panel reopening and are
checked on resume before replacement jobs are sent.

The vampire inventory was repaired from 755 to 754 entries: a homepage link
had been counted as a chapter. All 752 downloaded files/hashes were preserved;
only the final chapter and afterword remained. Both URLs passed direct-fetch
checks. Refresh the local app, and pause/reload the unpacked extension before
using the new concurrency controls. No new scraper generation is needed merely
to load the controls. Migration 202609110043 was tested and applied locally
and to the hosted schema. The later 044 migration and verified library transfer
are now complete; the vampire book has all 754 originals and 165 current translations.

LIVE SOURCE CHECK (2026-09-12)
Ten domains were checked in normal browsers. The installed extension saved and
hash-verified three 69shuba chapters; one paid extractor request generated its
adapter, and the next two chapters reused it. Novel543, 101kks and TWKan stopped
on chapter verification. Qidian showed a slider challenge. UUKanshu refused the
connection, Shuhaige failed HTTP/2, Shukuge failed certificate validation, Zongheng
returned 403 for its public reading link, and 17K never yielded a usable page.
No challenge was solved or bypassed. Samples and adapters remain in isolated
local audit accounts, not the real or hosted library. Details: docs/browser-extension.md.

Groups share pre-group recent context and guide instructions. New translations
and opt-in guide updates affect the next request; a 10-chapter group can pass
the default 5-chapter guide interval. Group output is capped by model and total
budget; Luna's application ceiling is 65,536 output tokens. Unknown models
default conservatively to 16,384. Group timing/usage averages are allocations,
not individually measured per-chapter latency or exact billing attribution.

Settings > Admin & usage shows monthly recorded cost estimates, unknown charges,
quota failures, open jobs and recent provider requests. One grouped request is
counted once, and retries have separate entries. New translation, guide, metadata
and term-suggestion requests are tracked; older history and other untracked tools
are not exact billing totals. The optional monthly alert is NOT a hard spending
cap. Remaining OpenAI credit is unavailable here; use the Usage/Billing links
for authoritative charges and provider limits.

For lower latency, compare gpt-4.1-mini and gpt-4.1-nano against Luna on a few
authorized chapters. Smaller non-reasoning models are useful speed candidates,
not a guarantee of equivalent translation quality. Luna already uses reasoning
effort none here. Ten chapters per request can improve throughput/input reuse,
but usually makes the first completed group take longer. No live paid speed
benchmark was run by the assistant.

References:
https://supabase.com/pricing
https://render.com/docs/free
https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/latency-optimization